What is going on, everyone, I'm wicked, and today I'm going to address an issue some of the new developers
often encounter while working with the Block Library, you might find yourself at the moment in time
in which your block or Cubitt state won't update at all.
So in this tutorial, you'll find out why this happens and exactly how we can fix it.
Will also take a more in-depth look over the equatable package.
So we know from previous tutorials that each block or cubitt incorporates a stream of outgoing states.
Our state not updating problem translates into a new state from a block or Cubitt can't be admitted
to the stream of outgoing states.
The cause of this problem is pretty simple.
You're probably emitting the same exact state as the previous one.
The problem with this is that Block Library does not allow two identical states to be emitted one after
another.
You can imagine this rule exists because of optimization techniques.
Why would you want to admit to identical states one after another, after all?
You probably don't want that.
But the code you wrote unfortunately translates into that.
First and foremost, you need to understand how Dart compares to objects, since that's how it also
compares to states in order to see if they're equal or not.
From the documentation, we find out that two objects are equal if and only if both are the same object.
Unfortunately, this may not seem really straightforward and some people misinterpreted.
So let's say we have a middle class class containing an integer value inside.
The main function will create two instances of this my class object, both having the value set to one
based on the definition.
What do you think this predicament will display?
You might be tempted to say that they're equal, but they're definitely not what the definition is trying
to say that the only way we can get through here is when we compare A to A and B to be our aim.
B variables are not the same object, even though it looks like they are from the code, they are different.
Therefore, comparing A to B will return a false value.
So that's how the default equality operator works inside DART.
But obviously we can override it to compare objects as we want to.
We want to compare these two instances to see if they're both instantiated from the same type of class
and also to see if they have the same value stored inside them.
To do that, we can override the equal operator by pressing the control plus period keys right next
to the class and then by choosing to generate equality.
So what this does is check if the other object we're comparing to is of type my class and if the other
objects value is equal to the ones we're comparing to.
Now, as you can see, if you run this program, the print sequence displays true.
The question now is, do we have to override this equal operator every time we're doing this?
Fortunately, no.
There is already a really popular darte package which simplifies things a lot.
Its name is equatable.
So let's import this package into the public that YAML file and see how it works.
All we need to do now is to extend our class from the equatable package and overwrite its props.
The props will be a list of all the variables we would want equatable to compare in order to decide
the quality of two objects.
In our case, we want to pass the value variables to the list of props.
If we save and we start our project, you will see that it works exactly as if we would manually override
the quality operator.
Let's test it even further.
What if we have different values?
It will return false.
But let's say we forget to mention the value parameter inside the file.
As you can see, if we compare and B will still get through, even though the values are different.
And that's because equatable will only compare the run type of the objects.
Both of them are instances of my class class, thus marking them equal.
That's why it's important to pay attention to every scenario on how that compares objects.
Remember that each state from inside your blocks or cubits is still a class nevertheless.
So everything we discussed applies to every state to coming back to our state, not updating issue.
We said that the cause of it is mainly the fact that the state we want to omit is actually equal to
the previous omitted one.
In order to understand this in more detail, I have created a settings page containing two switching
styles, one serving for an eventual AB notification feature and the other one serving for an eventual
email notification feature.
So each of these two titles can be either on or off, depending on the user's preference to receive
app or email notifications.
To manage this page, I have also created a settings cubitt, a cubitt which will emit a single setting
state.
Each time one of the titles are toggled, the settings state glass will contain two boolean class.
App notifications and email notifications by default, the initial state of the cubitt will be setting
state with both of the fields set to force.
I have also created two functions inside the cubitt.
One is triggered when the ID style is pressed and the other one is triggered when the email notification
starts pressed.
Both of these two functions will meet a single state according to what the new value of the Boolean
values will be inside the UI.
Of course, I use Block Builder in order to rebuild the switch list.
That's according to the specific values found inside the setting state.
I have also added a block lisner at the top in which I'm showing a snack bar to see that the values
of the setting state correspond to what's shown on the screen.
The settings Cubitt is provided globally above the material app widget, thus being available to all
of our screens.
Remember, if you have doubts or don't understand a line of code, you can find a source code for this
material into description.
And you can also leave me a comment right below the video.
OK, now let's investigate the mistakes some of the users of Block Library make while coding mistakes
that lead to the state not being updated anymore.
Let's switch our review to the Tuggle app notifications method inside settings Cubitt class.
I said that inside this function will have to retrieve the new value of the switch style from the UI,
then omit a sitting state containing the app notifications field populated with the new value.
Some people may do the following.
They will take the current state, which is the setting state, modify its application value directly
to the new value, subsequently omitting that state again into the stream of omitted states.
These two lines of code are really, really, really wrong and must be avoided at all costs.
First of all, we're mutating an existing state of our cubitt.
This is a complete violation of the main principle of block.
Remember, for every interaction user makes with UI, there should be a new state omitted from the OR
cubit.
So you should never but never modify or mutate any already existing state from inside a block or cubitt.
You can access its value using the state operator right here, but you should never modify it.
The biggest problem isn't, however, this line of code, but rather the next one.
It may seem that if you modify the app notifications value above with the new value, the state we're
missing here will be different from the previous one.
This is again wrong.
Remember that we discussed earlier on how that compares objects at the moment.
Currently this omitted state is to dart the same exact state as it was before.
Doesn't matter if we modified its value here is just like we previously compared it to A and B to be,
it will still return.
True, since it's the same object to the previous state being equal to one you're trying to omit.
Block Library won't admit a new state to the stream of states, therefore not updating the UI.
This can be noticed if we save and run the project right now.
As you can see, if we click the switch style, nothing happens.
In order to fix this, we need to erase these lines of code.
I don't know if you noticed, but inside the sitting state class I have this copy with method I generated
by clicking control plus period next to the class name.
If you're not familiar with this method, what it essentially does is create a new instance of a setting
state by copying the entire previous one.
And then inside the methods parameters, you can mention which field you want to modify after it gets
created.
In our class, we can omit a new state by calling state that copy with which will create a new setting
state and copy the content from the previous one to the new state by also setting up the new value of
app notifications.
As you can see, if we save and run the project right now, the application is going to work perfectly.
As I told you before, another mistake users do use that whenever they use the equatable package, they
forget to place the values inside the variable.
In our case, if we were to do that, we would have set our settings state to extend equatable.
Then let's say we forgot to write the AB notifications variable inside the props.
This means that DART will only compare to setting state by checking only the values of imaginative locations
variables.
So, for example, if only the notifications variable modifies, Dart won't care about it and will still
return.
True while comparing the two states.
So if we save money, run this project and click the switch style for the notifications feature, it
won't do anything since Dart thinks it's the same state as before and won't admit it.
So please pay attention while working with equatable package and with how that compares objects in general,
we are easily but steadily approaching the end of this amazing course.
I hope you liked it.
Until now, only two chapters separate us from the end in.
The next chapter, I will teach you a really important topic, every blog developer should note that
is how the status of an app can be maintained and restored from the app's internal storage.
Hydrating block is the key to that.
With that being said, I'm looking forward to seeing each and every one of you in the next chapter.
Stay tuned and let's get wicked.